Chat Commands: 

    /ooc [message]  Out of character chat that everyone on the server can see
    /name [first name] [last name]  Changes role play name
    /dropmoney [amount]  Drops money from your balance
    /pm [rpname] [message]  Privately messages a person on the server
    /y [message]  Yells the message within a bigger area for more people to hear
    @ [message]  Sends a message directly for only the Staff/Admins to see

 General Rules: 

    No Microphone Spam
    No Prop Block or Prop Spam
    Respect players in OOC (out of character)
    No bullying, harassment or racism is tolerated
    Do not advertise other servers
    Do not bend or use loopholes in the rules
    Hits must have a valid reason
    If you buy two doors to a building such as the apartments you own the building.
    Do not RDA
    Staff have final say on rules
    Invincible cover such as no collided boxes are not allowed
    Use common sense
    No racist, sexist, homophobic slurs or abuse in voice, roleplay chat or OOC

Building Rules:

    Only 3 fading doors are allowed
    Do not fading door abuse
    The hold length of the keypad (fading door) must be at least 4 seconds
    Building is allowed on the streets as long as it’s not blocking the way of other players path and if a staff member doesn’t approve you need to remove it and put it closer to the wall or further away from street/road
    Mega basing is allowed but only for gangs such as Crips, Bloods and Mafia
    No racist, sexist, homophobic buildings or textscreens
    No building on roofs that are used by admins.
    Trap basing is allowed
    The base needs to have enough room for two people to stand in.
    Sky basing is not allowed
    “All KOS Rules Apply” is allowed as long as the font size is 50 or more
    You’re not allowed to edit or place props down during a raid
    Building in PD is allowed as long as there isn’t too crowded.
    The keypad has to be close enough to the fading door

Role Play Rules: 

    Don’t RDM (random death match)
    Do not NLR (new life rule)
    No metagaming
    Don’t self supply (spawning guns for yourself as gun dealer is an exception, you cannot then change to thief and use them)
    Do not Job Abuse (swapping from hobo to thief in front of someone then mugging them)
    No prop spamming / entity spamming

 Raiding Rules: 

    5 Minutes between raids, 10 minutes between raids on same base
    You cannot raid bases with building signs
    If you raid a base you must leave after you complete it
    You can raid a base if you have a hit on the person inside it
    You cannot spawn props inside the base during a raid
    Must advert raid, mug, kidnap, rape, hijack, counter, carjack, terror 

 Terrorist Rules:

    You cannot terror in spawn
    One terrorist attack is allowed every 15 minutes
    A terrorist attack can only last 5 minutes
    Once you die the attack must end


Mayor: 

    Cannot allow anything against server rules
    Cannot hold a Two-handed weapon as self-defense, he can have one-hand weapon only, he can also hire bodyguards
    Can order any police to arrest anyone that has broken a law.
    No stupid laws. Example "Must give all money to the mayor" or "everyone is Kos or aos" Use Common Sense.
    No racist rules 



Police: 

    Must follow the mayor's rules (If there is no mayor you must follow the standard Australian law)
    Must give the reason for an arrest. No Random arrest/ Baton rush
    Must have a warrant for raiding a suspect's base. A valid reason. (Links to murder, Mugging)
    Must Tell the person (if he has a gun) to put it away or he will be shot (10 seconds warn) (only applies if he is faced away) (if he turns around with the gun out you have the right to shoot) 

    Fearrp doesn't apply if the person is at least 10 or more meters away (due to police having their gun always on their waist)

Guards: 

    You are not law enforcement (you cannot help with the police)     

SWAT: 

    You cannot own a base. the PD is your base.
    Must have a warrant to enter suspect's base. valid reason needed. (Links to murder, Mugging, Act of terror) 


Terminology: 

    RDM: Random Death Match
    RDA: Random Arrest
    NLR: New Life Rule
    NITRP: No Intention to RP
    LTAP: Leave to avoid punishment
    FDA: Fading door abuse
    NLA: Nonlethal Abuse
    A (RDM/RDA): Attempted (RDM/RDA)
    R (RDM/RDA): Revenge (RDM/RDA)
    Propblock: Blocking all areas without a way to get in using a lockpick / keypad cracker
    Propclimb: Using props to get on places you cannot normally get to
    KoS = Kill on Sight
    AoS = Arrest on Sight
